The configuration register contains different options.
And one of them determines how Rodda boots when we use the show version command and we press spacebar
to scroll down.
We can see what the configuration register of the router is configured as at the moment it's using the
default of 0 x 2 1 0 2.
Whenever you see 0 X you need to know that the numbers that follow on hexadecimal So in other words
we have four hexadecimal values here.
So 0 x 2 1 0 2 equates in binary to 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 followed by four zeros followed by 0 0 1 0.
This last hexadecimal Valley determines how a route boots.
So as an example on this second router show version it's also set to the default Valley.
But what I'll do now is change the configuration register
to a value of 0 x 2 1 0 0 and I won't save the config.
I mean use the come on short version so notice at the moment that is the configuration register value
that this is what it's going to be at next reload.
I'm not going to save the config.
But what I'm going to do is I'm going to power off that router some to say immediate off in my APC power
management system
soft power to.
A one.
So now when I press Enter I'm getting no response on the router what I'll do now is powered on.
So you can see the road is booting up.
But notice it booted immediately into run monitor mode.
Run or read only memory contains monitor mode and the router has not booted into this mode because we
set to the configuration register to 0 x 2 1 0 0 the last hexadecimal Valley is called the boot field
and that determines how the rod booted it booted in this example directly into run monitor mode because
we configured the config register as follows.
We didn't have to save it.
It saved immediately.
And when the rod is booted it booted straight into Ramananda mode.
Now Ramona mode doesn't have the same commands as you get in the Cisco Wes.
So notice the output is very different to what we see in typical Cisco Iowas commands.
The rage command allows you to specify the configuration register.
So in this example I'm going to set it back to 2 1 0 2 and we told that we need to reset or power cycle
the router to take effect.
So we can use the reset command or we can simply power cycle the Rodda send this example or use the
reset command.
And what you'll notice is it doesn't boot directly into Rumana mode.
It is loading the Cisco operating system so Ramon is initialized
but notice the Cisco Iowa image is decompressed and is being loaded by the router.
Because we changed the configuration register to use normal boot.
It's going to boot the operating system and start up the router as normal.
Notice here is the Cisco iris image that the router is booting.
And there we go the rod is not booted up.
Interfaces are coming up.
Always be neighbor relationships are being formed in this example.
Show flesh confirms the operating system stored in Flash and show version shows us which operating system
was booted from flash.
Notice the configuration register is back to 0 x 2 1 0 2.